Document API & architecture (#143)
jannis-baum/Vivify: docs/api.md

# Vivify's API

> In addition to the command line interface `viv`, Vivify has HTTP endpoints that

Reviewer: Now, this might be silly, so you can choose to adopt this or not, but I would propose that the project name always be wrapped in bold tags, so that **Vivify** would always appear as bold, as like a branding thing.

```suggestion
In addition to the command line interface `viv`, **Vivify** has HTTP endpoints that
```

Author: Hm, I see the point but I feel like that might be a bit cumbersome to do because we would have to do it in all other files as well and will probably forget some, especially as the documentation evolves. I would say the capitalization takes care of this to a good enough level since most other words are lower case in English. What do you think?

Reviewer: Yeah that works fine. That's certainly easier.

can be used to integrate it into other applications, such as making editor
plugins for live previews.

## Path encoding

> Vivify's endpoints are often accessed with the pattern `/<endpoint>/<path>`

Reviewer: Would it be fair to say they are always accessed with that pattern? I would consider just dropping the word often.

Author: We do have `GET /health` and `DELETE /viewer` at the root of the endpoints with no paths.

We could instead say something like

> **Current wording**
>
> > Vivify's endpoints are often accessed with the pattern `/<endpoint>/<path>` where path is a [percent-encoded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding) path in the file system.
>
> **Suggestion**
>
> > When accessing an endpoint corresponding to a path in the file system, use `/<endpoint>/<path>` where `<path>` is [percent-encoded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding).

Is that better? ^^

where path is a
[percent-encoded](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding)
path in the file system. For paths that follow UNIX naming conventions, this
means that endpoints can be accessed directly at the literal paths. For example,
accessing `<endpoint>` for a file at `/Users/me/my-file.md` can be done through

> the URL

Reviewer: This one is missing its ending period
```suggestion
the URL.
```

```txt
/<endpoint>/Users/me/my-file.md
```

> For paths that have special characters such as spaces, we have to rely on the
> [percent-encoding](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding).

Reviewer: Suggestion, use authoritative tone
```suggestion
For paths that have special characters such as spaces, use
[percent-encoding](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Percent-encoding).
```

`/health/<path>` (as defined in [Path encoding](#path-encoding)) will reply with
status 200 if there are clients connected at the given path, or with 404 if
there aren't.

### `/viewer`

This endpoint is used to manipulate connected clients.

Sending a `POST` to `/viewer/<path>` (as defined in [Path
encoding](#path-encoding)) will always reply with the following response.

```typescript
{
  "clients": number     // number of clients connected at <path>
}
```

The request can include a body with the following optional fields.

```typescript
{
  "content": string,    // Live update the entire file's content to the given
                        // value.
  "cursor": number,     // For markdown files, scroll all viewers to the content
                        // corresponding to the given line in the source file.
  "reload": boolean     // Live update the viewer based on the current content
                        // on disk. Note that this overrides "content".
}
```

Sending a `DELETE` request to `/viewer` will fully reload all connected clients
at any paths and clear all cached updated live content. Sending a `DELETE`

> request to `/viewer/<path>` (as defined in [Path encoding](#path-encoding)) will
> do the same for all clients at the given path.

Reviewer: I would drop the "as defined in..." after the first use in each section (ie: one use in the health section, one use in the view section at maximum)

```suggestion
request to `/viewer/<path>` will do the same for all clients at the given path.
```
